add notes for nov/dec 2022 meeting (#223)
tc39/tc39-notes: meetings/2022-11/nov-29.md

JRL: Because iterables could be infinite, they’re a bit different. Here you're only taking a fixed amount, the behavior will collates all keys. I would say like if you have a span of 1, 2,1,1 those all 1s get grouped into the same key. But in an iterable,  if you have 1, 2, 1,1 you have 3 separate groups, [1], [2], [1, 1]. The behavior for iterator groupBy has to return itself an iterator which does not have all keys  collated together, only contiguous runs collated.

BSH: Okay, thanks.

USA: All right. That concludes this topic. I would like to reaffirm that this proposal stays stays at stage 3.

 \
JRL: Yeah. so I would like to remain at stage 3. I'm going to come back next meeting with a formalized spec for static methods and we can agree on that point if we want to approach, if we want to switch to the static method approach, we could either demote to stage two and let it bake with the community at state stage 3.

### Conclusion/Decision

* Proposal stays at stage 3
* Tentatively going for static methods on Object/Map

## Should we set a lower bound on the resolution of timers

Presenter: Shu-yu Guo (SYG)

- [issue](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues/2914)

> SYG: OK. This is a pedantic thing that I don't think has any. Really real. world impact. One way or another. currently, but it'd be good to to get clarified in the spec. so Richard Gibson here filed an issue a while back currently. What time? weight is one of those things where we hand wave some stuff about what time actually is and the way that it does the blocking. So sorry called hummocks, not way is a blocking call that suspends the thread of execution until it is notified. This cannot be called on the main thread on the we. because it blocks execution. And the way it does this, it can have a timeout. and if it has a has a timeout, it basically, it goes through this AO called `suspendAgent`, and it just says like, wait for that time. The issue is that we don't really put any normative guidance around what exactly that ‘wait for that time’ means. Does it mean a compliant implementation must wait exactly that time Does it mean it can? Wait, at a coarser granularity of time? But we don't say that. So I think we should say something about that. specifically, Richard Gibson brings up the point of if you can't have, fractional seconds, which is interpreted as factual milliseconds and You observe different things on different implementations. As he shows in this. example here. So, So, What? should we do?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SYG: OK. This is a pedantic thing that I don't think has any real world impact one way or another currently, but it'd be good to to get clarified in the spec. So RGN here filed an issue a while back currently. `Atomics.wait` is one of those things where we hand wave some stuff about what time actually is and the way that it does the blocking. It is a blocking call that suspends the thread of execution until it is notified. This cannot be called on the main thread because it blocks execution. And the way it does this, it can have a timeout that goes to this AO called SuspendAgent, and it just says like, wait for that time. The issue is that we don't really put any normative guidance around what exactly that ‘wait for that time’ means. Does it mean a compliant implementation must wait exactly that time? Does it mean it can wait at a coarser granularity of time? We don't say. So I think we should say something about that. Specifically, RGN brings up the point of fractional milliseconds, and you observe different things on different implementations. As he shows in this. example here. So, what should we do?
```

MF: Hello. I think this is kind of a two-part question. First, it's a question of fact whether this is permitted today, which I believe the answer is that it is. There's a section on what hosts can do and we can apply that to extending specifications. The second part of the question is, what do we want? But just to answer the first part, which I think is what we are looking for today for the resolution of this topic: anything that's not written in that restricted section is permitted. So any specification including 402 can update built-ins, can add properties of globals, and do anything else.

MM: so I want to be a reply to Michael. the exemption in the spec specifically for hosts. extensions are not house. So I dispute the, the idea that the current spec allows us,

MF: If it was a restriction it would be in the restrictions section.

MM: I don't. Understand.

MF: I can get you the section number. I don't remember the number. I think it is 19. That has restrictions on extensions. What exemption are you referring to?

> MM: The idea that hosts can add properties to promote to the intrinsic objects defined by 262? I mean, do you have any text from expected? the first time? I thought it was quoted in Richard's presentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MM: The idea that hosts can add properties to promote to the intrinsic objects defined by 262? I mean, do you have any text from expected? the first time? I thought it was quoted in RGN's presentation.
```

PFC: Yeah, thanks. I understand. I think that stage 3 is the compromise between keeping things frozen and incorporating the feedback that you get from when your plans actually meet reality. In closing I'd certainly love to participate in a discussion about what we do with large proposals and share the experience from Temporal. But anyway, I'd like to formally ask for consensus on this slate of normative changes.

YSV: Do we have any explicit statements of support other than DE and DLM? Anyone objects to the changes that have just been presented getting consensus? It sounds like consensus.

### Conclusion/Decision

* No objections to any normative changes (and explicit support for DE and DLM)

## Is ECMA402 allowed to extend ECMA262 prototypes? - What does "narrow yes" mean?

Presenter: Shane F Carr (SFC)

- [proposal]()

- [slides]()

es actually means. I guess, Okay, so Richard Cho switch it off with the the narrower. Yeah.

SFC: And in areas like well what does narrow?

> Yes actually mean we should write that down in the notes. Okay. understanding of it. is that we, as a committee commit to not make such extensions without a note in 262, or other text into 62, describing that 402. is pacifying what they are. Are.

Reviewer 2: `62` -> `262` ?

```suggestion
Yes actually mean we should write that down in the notes. Okay. understanding of it. is that we, as a committee commit to not make such extensions without a note in 262, or other text into 262, describing that 402. is pacifying what they are. Are.
```

> es actually means. I guess, Okay, so Richard Cho switch it off with the the narrower. Yeah.
> 
> SFC: And in areas like well what does narrow?
> 
> Yes actually mean we should write that down in the notes. Okay. understanding of it. is that we, as a committee commit to not make such extensions without a note in 262, or other text into 262, describing that 402. is pacifying what they are. Are.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SFC: What does "narrow yes" actually mean? We should write that down in the notes. Okay. Our understanding of it is that we as a committee commit to not make such extensions without a note in 262, or other text into 262, describing that 402 is specifying what they are.
```

# 29 November, 2022 Meeting Notes

-----

> Delegates: re-use [your existing abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)! If you’re a new delegate and don’t already have an abbreviation, choose any three-letter combination that is not [already in use](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt), and send a PR to add it upstream.
> 
> You can find Abbreviations in [delegates.txt](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

| Romulo Cintra        | RCA            | Igalia             | In-person |
| Ujjwal Sharma        | USA            | Igalia             | In-person |
| Linus Groh           | LGH            | SerenityOS         | In-person |
| Yulia Startsev       | YSV            | Mozilla            | In-person |
| Eemeli Aro           | EAO            | Mozilla            | In-person |
| Daniel Minor         | DLM            | Mozilla            | In-person |
| Tom Kopp             | TKP            | Zalari             | In-person |
| Christian Ulbrich    | CHU            | Zalari             | In-person |
| Patrick Soquet       | PST            | Moddable           | In-person |
| Richard Gibson       | RGN            | Agoric             | Remote    |
| Caridy Patiño        | CP             | Salesforce         | Remote    |
| Philip Chimento      | PFC            | Igalia             | Remote    |
| Alex Vincent         | AVT            | es-membrane        | Remote    |
| Daniel Rosenwasser   | DRR            | Microsoft          | Remote    |
| Istvan Sebestyen     | IS             | Ecma               | Remote    |
```

## Intro

> Presenter: Firstname Lastname (FLE)
> 
> - [proposal]()
> 
> - [slides]()
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

USA: Thank you, Daniel.

FYT: It’s too early to talk about 729. I haven’t had a chance to review. The first time I loaded your slide like one minute before the meeting you don't even have the thing. Nobody have chance to look at the PR. I don't feel comfortable to read consensus about this one.

DE: All right. I agree with Frank. We should probably just come back to this next meeting after TGT reviews it that's been the pattern so far, right? the 729 Yeah, the one that you said. you haven't reviewed in TG2 yet.

USA: Oh, yeah. well this would. this would be presented to TG2 to but I take it that you. don't consent to this PR being merged.

DE: I like the way that you've been giving summaries explaining why the PRs make sense? and so it'll be great if you can give that next meeting.

?: you know the ordering of it goes to TG2 TG2 and then it goes to TG1. I like that better.

<p id="gdcalert57" ><span style="color: red; font-weight: bold">>>>>>  gd2md-html alert: Definition term(s) &uarr;&uarr; missing definition? </span><br>(<a href="#">Back to top</a>)(<a href="#gdcalert58">Next alert</a>)<br><span style="color: red; font-weight: bold">>>>>> </span></p>

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

USA: Okay. Okay, then I guess I would like to ask for consensus on two of the PRs 714 and 24. so 714 and seven. Oh. example 724 so these have already gone through TG2. and so asking for do we do we have any supporters for those specifically those two? I'd Daniel does your your previous support -

DE: I support those.

FYT: I support 714 and 724.

> RPR: Okay, thank you. So we have two two active supporters. Are there any objectors for those? No. okay, then those two PRs have consensus then. Thank you very much. I think you SFC as well on the the queue. Right. Does that conclude the 402 402 status update?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RPR: We have two two active supporters. Are there any objectors for those? No. okay, then those two PRs have consensus then. Thank you very much. I think you SFC as well on the the queue. Right. Does that conclude the 402 status update?
```

EAO: so, just just could you clarify whether you're objecting to recognizing that parsing and time invested resources is a separate concern than parsing and formatting individual messages, which is effectively the ask here or whether you're saying that given that we already have this stage 1 Intl.MessageFormat a proposal that we should be doing this work within that scope.

KG: Like I said, I don't necessarily object to having a separate proposal for this. I don't see a reason for it, but if you would like to split it out, go for it. The thing that I was just talking about was specifically because you mentioned something about wanting to advance resources so that you could experiment with it and I think you should experiment with it before advancing it. But that's all.

RCA: Yes, I totally support this proposal for stage 1. I think this is one of the building blocks for message format and I do support that we split and we are working on, MessageResource separately from the basic MessageFormat proposal and they both have different responsibilities. But also they deeply connect. Work on MessageResource can advance in potential in different spaces from MessageFormat, I support this.

> RPR: Okay. So, I do. put any objections to advancement with her, had at least one support, maybe two, two. Any objections to stage1?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RPR: We had at least one voice of support, maybe two. Any objections to stage1?
```

(silence)

> RPR: Congratulations for stage one.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RPR: Congratulations you have stage one.
```
